Israel's Army has given the green light
to plans for a possible offensive into
Southern Lebanon ratcheting up tensions
between Israel and the pro-iranian
Hezbollah militia the Israeli foreign
minister threatened to destroy Hezbollah
if it comes to an allout War his
statement came after hollah hinted it
could attack the northern Israeli Port
City of hia has released drone images
which it said showed areas around the
city the Israeli Army released this
footage which they say shows air strikes
against several Hezbollah Targets in
southern Lebanon clashes between the
Israeli Army and Hezbollah have been
nearly daily since the start of the war
in Gaza in
October for more on this Let's cross
over to our correspondent in Jerusalem
Rebecca ritters Rebecca launching a
crossb offensive in Lebanon sounds like
a drastic move given current conditions
how likely is it that Israel will go
ahead with
this well just How likely is almost
impossible to say with complete
certainty Terry but the probability is
rising every day as we see the rhetoric
and threats from both sides also rising
and now we're seeing this uh plan by the
IDF saying that it has been greenlit uh
now that follows visits by both prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and defense
minister yov Galant who have toured the
North in recent weeks and both have said
uh to the to the IDF soldiers up there
to be prepared uh that they you know are
certainly preparing and willing to
launch a a a greater full a fullon
conflict with Lebanon with Hezbollah in
southern Lebanon should they deem it
necessary and as you mentioned there in
your lead in these images purportedly uh
showing a Hezbollah drone that has come
in and captured several sites in
Northern Lebanon that they potentially
then would threaten to attack and that
drone then returning uh if it is indeed
true to Southern Lebanon and then then
being able to release the footage is is
certainly a threat from that side and
now we're seeing you know greater
ramping up of rhetoric from the Israeli
side as well now there has been a border
dispute between Israel and Lebanon for
many years and Amos Hawkin the US Envoy
has been trying to broker a deal between
the two sides for for some time uh now
we are seeing that those as we see this
threat since October 7th these near
daily skirmishes uh escalate um it's
certainly looking like a fullblown
conflict could be very possible
certainly I was up in the northern part
of Israel recently speaking to Residents
many of whom some 70,000 have been
evacuated from that northern border
region and they said that they wouldn't
return home or some of the ones that I
spoke to said that they would wouldn't
return home unless there was an allout
conflict with hezb to push it back
further away from the border that they
simply wouldn't feel safe even if there
was a political
solution now tensions in the region are
extremely high many are worried about uh
congration consuming the Middle East
what could help deescalate tensions
between Israel and Lebanon at this
point well there have been Diplomat
diplomatic efforts ongoing certainly uh
since the early days of October when
things kicked off on the 8th of October
with Hezbollah respond ing to uh the the
the war in Gaza and saying that they
were going to do what they could to tie
up Israeli sources resources rather in
the north uh so we've been seeing
diplomatic efforts to try to stop this
spreading into a wider conflict you know
with the us bringing warships into the
Mediterranean to try to to prevent
anything from sparking spilling over uh
but those diplomatic efforts haven't
reached any final conclusion uh the the
US Envoy that I mentioned before Amos
Hawk he was recently just this week in
Israel talking with leaders here trying
to figure out ways that there could be
some kind of political solution he says
a political soltion solution is
definitely possible uh he's now in
Lebanon he's been speaking there with
leaders uh from the Lebanese government
trying to work out how best they could
come to this political solution but so
far we haven't seen any fruits of that
Labor uh that have been successful we
certainly haven't seen uh a downplaying
or a calming down of tensions in that
region in fact quite the opposite so the
received wisdom of people you speak to
here is it's not a matter of if but a
matter of when
Terry Rebecca thank you very much DW's
correspondent in Jerusalem Rebecca
ritters